# CASA0022 - Connected Environments Dissertation Project Ideas


## Did the bats Lockdown?
CASA have a number of bat monitors in the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park that have been counting bat calls since 2017. In this research project we are interested in exploring how to visualise changing calls volumes given environmental conditions (climate, events, seasons).

Dataset: available - approx 8 bat monitors (bat counts and probability of bat type), 1 weather station (usual weather parameters), event information (concerts, events etc)

www.naturesmartcities.com

CASA contacts: Duncan Wilson

---

## Shazam for Bats v2
CASA have a number of bat monitors in the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park that have been counting bat calls since 2017. In this research project we are interested in developing a v2 of the Bat Monitor. The project would focus on implementing a new device using AudioMoth as a sensor plus Raspberry Pi as host for deep learning models to classify bat calls. Knowledge of Edge Impulse and or TensorFlow Lite required. Whilst initial focus is on bats the device could also be used to detect bird calls (using Birdnet model).

www.naturesmartcities.com

CASA contacts: Duncan Wilson

---

## Patient Journeys in a Pop Up eye clinic
CASA have been working with Moorfields Eye Hospital to explore the potential for the use of pop-up eye clinics in retail outlets (Brent Cross) to catch up on COVID appointment backlog. Time motion data from 6 months of patient activity and 3 different activity layouts are available. This project would explore different ways of analysing trends in patient throughput over time and space.

CASA contacts: Duncan Wilson

---

## Space Usage Activity Monitoring in Bartlett Workshops.
Can Computer Vision help us understand how workshop spaces get used? The project would involve building a prototype camera that implements AI / ML techniques to anonymously track people in Bartlett workshops and visually represent activity trends over time.

Dataset: open source image datasets would be used for training - project would create new datasets through inference on workshop usage.

CASA contacts: Duncan Wilson

---

## Face counting in lecture theatres
Project to develop a machine vision system to use object detection algorithms to anonymously count room occupancy in lecture theatres / offices.

CASA contacts: Duncan Wilson

---

## Counting motorbikes in parking bays
Project to develop a machine vision system to use object detection algorithms to detect in realtime the number of motorbikes parked in London motorbike bays.

CASA contacts: Duncan Wilson

---

## QEOP water temperature monitoring 
Water temperature in the waterways around the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park provide indicators of the health of biodiversity. This project will utilise the Lora network deployed in the park to capture water temperature data over several months. The project will require some knowledge of building simple sensor systems and deployment of the sensors in the field.  

CASA contacts: Duncan Wilson



---

## Office Activity
CASA have several IoT energy monitors on appliances in CASA measuring the coffee machine, kettle, water cooler, printers, screens etc. We are interested in analysis of this data from different perspectives: could time series analysis of this data help inform patterns of behaviour or help predict future activity? Could novel forms of visualisation help us see the data from a different perspective?

Dataset: 8x energy monitors capturing power usage every 2 secs since December 2019.

CASA contacts: Duncan Wilson

---

## Virtual interfaces to data in the city 
CASA have developed a walkshop web app called Smart Walks which has a database of geolocated technology in the city. The goal of this project would be to explore how this screen based application could be extended to incorporate novel forms of in-situ interaction and presentation of data in the urban environment. 

CASA contacts: Duncan Wilson

---

## Digital Fabric Design Fictions
CASA are working with the UCL East project team to develop an IoT Strategy to release the large volumes of data generated by modern buildings. Motivated by the technological concept of a smart campus but aware of the socio political risks, we are interested in developing some speculative futures to help frame how future scenarios of this campus of the future could play out. We are keen that the research explores potential futures through physical prototypes, design fictions or works of art. 

Dataset: documents on the vision for UCL East / planned programmes / data registers; sample datasets from existing building systems to build proof of concepts

CASA contacts: Duncan Wilson


---

## Photogram.AI
https://www.alice.camera 

The Alice Camera’s mission is to empower the next generation of content creators who have been let down by the lack of innovation and usability of traditional digital cameras. Photogram surveyed over 1,000 content creators and found that 89% wanted a device with the image quality of an interchangeable lens camera but with the connectivity of a smartphone.

By taking advantage of a new opportunity to bring together mirrorless camera technology, micro four thirds lenses and smartphone technology with the advances in computational photography and artificial intelligence, the team at Photogram are drastically rethinking the camera as a computer with an open source ecosystem making it easier to shoot, edit and share content seamlessly whilst being affordable and maintaining a professional optical system.

Project Brief: We are using Google's edge TPU in our camera so edge computing projects using deep learning and TFlite would be good. AR is also something we haven't fully explored. We don't have any preference on the specific technical application so we'd be open to suggestions.

Contact: Vishal Kumar

CASA contact: Duncan Wilson 



---

## Solar PV Mapping Project
To estimate how much photovoltaic energy will be produced, we first need to know where the solar PV systems are. At the moment this is not well known in the UK for all but the largest solar PV systems - particularly domestic systems are poorly documented. This project would develop a methods for citizen scientists to monitor solar potential in their locale.

Jack - openclimatefix, Dom - energy institute

CASA contacts: Duncan Wilson


---

## DB of IoT
Working with cofounder of IGDB.com (a project that focussed on bot/communal gathering of game data into a Taxonomy the project will develop the same thing but with IoT devices. Fundamental questions need answering such as "What is an IoT device?" and "What are their properties?". This would extend into further categorisation, for example, if it takes batteries, what kind? If it is powered, what is the connector? Does it connect wirelessly? If so, how? Of course, creating a taxonomy is a great start, but also more philosophically, where could this taxonomy be applied? Who would benefit from a database of products that use this taxonomy?

Contact: Jake Cattrall

CASA contacts: Duncan Wilson

---

## FLOX.AI
see seperate pdf from this agritech start-up

---

## IoT Bike Lockers - Active Things

https://activethings.app
https://twitter.com/doactivethings/

We are working with Scott Cain (Honorary Senior Research Fellow) Founder and CEO of Active Things.  “Active Things is your Active Travel Assistant, helping you find and access (secure) bike parking, routes and more.”

The goal of this project is to identify and map the potential locations in London where cyclists may want to stop and secure their bike for 30 mins to 2 hours. With cycle theft on a continued upwards spiral there is a need for more secure urban parking for bikes. Active Things provide remotely accessible secure bike storage which you pay for by the minute. This is not aimed at storage at home or in the office (which are increasingly well catered for) but the intermediate journeys cyclists would like to make on their bikes – e.g. stopping at the pub for an hour on the way home, calling in at the gym, stopping to pick up some shopping etc. Research by Active Things indicates that risk of theft puts off many cyclists making these intermediate journeys and has a negative impact on cycle use (ie they don’t use the bike if they plan to go to the pub.

Research question: where should the first 1000 lockers be installed to best cater to these intermediate journeys? What kind of profile of use could be imagined in terms of daily usage patterns? Do the current deployments of bike racks match the need for secure parking?

Active Things are also interested in prototype smart lock systems that could be used with their existing cycle storage systems.

Data:
Active Things are currently the provider of the TfL bike mapping service. They have expressed intent to share research findings from surveys interviews and feedback from users over the past year.

CASA contact: Duncan Wilson

---

## Urban Data Sharing Platform
Urban Data Collective are developing an urban data sharing platform and marketplace aimed at cities and local governments. It will primarily focus on IoT and streaming data. 

A key audience for the system are the grass roots, community and research users who might be collecting data. The focus of this project would be to explore the work required to onboard interesting IoT data streams to the platform for wider sharing and the business model for long term sustained use. 

The project is partly technical – the process for onboarding data to the sharing platform, but is mainly focused on the implications of sharing data and how it could be monetised or create demand for crowdfunded support to sustain the sensor deployments more long term. An initial use case would include the onboarding of Bat data in the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park being collected by UCL and the Bat Conservation Trust and comparing and contrasting different socio economic models for the sustainable operation of digital infrastructure.

Urban Data Collective contacts: Sarah Gallacher

CASA contacts: Duncan Wilson

---

## Buro Happold Supported Projects

(To learn more about Buro Happold visit https://www.burohappold.com)

Various topics of interest including: 

- ESG data flow capture / analysis / dashboarding for real estate
- Building your own smart contracts for commercial and residential real estate
- digital technology catalogue auditing tool
- technology capital costing tool
- sustainability of digital technologies assessment tool
- return on experience dashboard
- approaches for community engagement platforms in smart building / campus / city development
- digital service awareness and proposition
- metaverse procurement model

BH contact: Jack Treble - Head of Technology (https://www.burohappold.com/people/jack-treble/ )
CASA contact: Duncan Wilson









---
Still to specify:
DW - project with UCL Estates to use Gallacher door entry data (answering provosts "how we use our space" question)
